Active Directory

AD DS (Active Directory Directory Services): is a role in server that server called (Domain Controller) DC

SCHEMA: what the information stored in DC about users Groups etc like :SID,ComputerName,etccc

OU: Orgazitinal unite : like a group of users,computers,groups, to assign security polices to this Groups 

Tree: maybe a domain like google.com has sub domain in syria so the subdomain will be syria.google.com and this two domains called tree 
      and maybe this subdoaimn implement different scehma (or liss restricted security ploices)


sites : Collections of users, groups, computers as defined by their physical locations. Useful during replication task each sites n=maybe has 
        DC and the REBLICATION IN PLAY


TRUST: two way trust if user like admin from google want to go to syria and manage things there the syira admins dont need to creat a new user , they cant add the same users account and give it permissions 

forrest : two trees (domains) make with other a forrest that maybe shared same schema and trust 

Global Cataloge: indexing for data stored in DC for speed the search 

LDAP: Whenever a connection, a query or modification must occur
       on a directory service, LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access
       (Protocol) comes into play.

Authintication : via kerberos 

Authorization: via SID
 Active Directory validates access to a resource based on the
 user’s security token. The security token, in essence, is the
 procedure of checking whether the user is included in the Access
 Control List (ACL) for the requested object/resource.

 we have two types of ACL : DACL ,SACL

 DACL : A discretionary access control list (DACL) identifies the security principals that are allowed or denied access to an
        object. When a person or process tries to access an object, the system checks the ACEs in the object's DACL to determine whether to grant access to it. When a person or process tries to access an object, the system checks the ACEs in the object's DACL to determine
        whether to grant access to it.
 SACL :A system access control list (SACL) enables administrators to log attempts to access a secured object. Each ACE specifies the types of 
       access attempts by a specified principal that cause the system to generate a record in the security event log.


SID:The primary means by which a security principal is identified when trying to access network resources is an
    identifier called security identifier (SID). The SID attribute is unique for each user or security group.

some notes for authorization :

*Security principals are issued security identifiers (SIDs) when the account is created
*User accounts are issued security tokens during authentication that include the user’s SID and all related group SIDs
*Shared resources on a network include access control lists (ACL) that define who can access the resource
*The security token is compared against the Discretionary Access Control List (DACL) on the resource and access is granted or denied